# biangbiang
Chinese NLP utilities

## Installation
For npm:
```
npm install biangbiang
```
For Yarn:
```
yarn add biangbiang
```
## Getting started

With `import`:

```javascript
import biangbiang from "biangbiang";
```

With `require`:

```javascript
var biangbiang = require('biangbiang');
```

### Methods

#### Dictionary

##### `define(word, dictionary)`

Get the pinyin and definition of a word, where dictionary is "simplified", "traditional", or "merged".

##### `kind(character)`

Check if a character is a traditional or simplified one.

##### `wordsContaining(character)`

Get a list of all dictionary words containing a character, sorted in order of decreasing frequency.

#### Frequency

##### `characterFrequency(character)`

Get frequency statistics for a character.

##### `wordFrequency(word)`

Get frequency statistics for a word.

##### `multiFrequency(sentence)`

Get frequency statistics for a body of text.

#### Components

##### `decompose(character, depth)`

Decompose a character into its components up to a specified depth. If depth is left undefined, then the full component tree is returned.

##### `charactersWithComponent(component)`

Get a list of characters containing a component, sorted in order of decreasing frequency.

## How it works

JSON files containing character/word/component information are generated by [/src/prepare.js](https://github.com/kevinhu/biangbiang/blob/master/src/prepare.js) from raw files contained in [/data/raw](https://github.com/kevinhu/biangbiang/tree/master/data/raw), with outputs saved to [/data/processed](https://github.com/kevinhu/biangbiang/tree/master/data/processed). 

The preparation script can also be run with `npm run prepare` or `yarn prepare`.

## Sources
